salesforce soql examples blog post (#13)
EdutainmentLIVE/edutainmentlive.github.io: _posts/2018-12-09-real-world-salesforce-object-query-language-soql-examples.md

Real-world Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL) examples
===========
by Cody Goodman (@codygman)

> Have you ever spent more time than you wanted trying to figure out what you think should be a very simple problem? While [pairing](TODO) another developer and I experienced this problem, and thought it would be helpful to share the results of our problem solving to save others time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have you ever spent more time than you wanted trying to figure out what you think should be a very simple problem? While [pairing](https://engineering.itpro.tv/2018/10/24/how-we-work-pair-programming/) another developer and I experienced this problem, and thought it would be helpful to share the results of our problem solving to save others time.
```

Reviewer: Alternatively you could use the [promiscuous pairing link](https://engineering.itpro.tv/2018/12/07/our-first-experiment-with-promiscuous-pairing-is-a-success/) if you wanted.

The simple select statement with a `WHERE` in a url query param being pretty simple in the end:

```
curl "https://yourInstance.salesforce.com/services/data/v20.0/query/?q=SELECT+name+from+Account+WHERE+id='ACCOUNT_ID'" -H "Authorization: Bearer token"
```

Note that the value must be quoted, that quotes are valid in urls, and you do not need to escape them. Any knowledge of SQL combined with browsing the [SOQL docs](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.soql_sosl.meta/soql_sosl/sforce_api_calls_soql.htm) would confirm that the SOQL query is:

```
SELECT+name+from+Account+WHERE+id='ACCOUNT_ID'
```

> Looking at the [Condition Expression Syntax documentation](TODO) you'll see more examples which are all very helpful, but the leave the question of integration as an exercise to the reader, even the [Execute an SOQL query using curl docs](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_rest.meta/api_rest/dome_query.htm) only have the simplest example. The problem is that the docs assumed construction of the SOQL query and transformation needed to use of it in it a query parameter was trivial and not worth covering. In our case a simple example of using SOQL with curl like we posted above would have drastically improved our user experience with the Salesforce api.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at the [Condition Expression Syntax documentation](TODO) you'll see more examples which are all very helpful, but they leave the question of integration as an exercise to the reader, even the [Execute an SOQL query using curl docs](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_rest.meta/api_rest/dome_query.htm) only has the simplest example. The problem is that the docs assumed constructing the SOQL query--and any transforming needed to use it in a query parameter--was trivial and not worth covering. In our case a simple example of using SOQL with curl like we posted above would have drastically improved our user experience with the Salesforce API and would have saved us literally hours.
```

Author: I do remember us discussing explaining things like `yourInstance` and `v20.0`. I removed it because I didn't think it added that much, but thinking back I feel like knowing those things could have helped save us time. 

I'll look for a good way to fit it in.

> Looking at the [Condition Expression Syntax documentation](TODO) you'll see more examples which are all very helpful, but they leave the question of integration as an exercise to the reader, even the [Execute an SOQL query using curl docs](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_rest.meta/api_rest/dome_query.htm) only has the simplest example. The problem is that the docs assumed constructing the SOQL query--and any transforming needed to use it in a query parameter--was trivial and not worth covering. In our case a simple example of using SOQL with curl like we posted above would have drastically improved our user experience with the Salesforce API and would have saved us literally hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at the [Condition Expression Syntax documentation](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.soql_sosl.meta/soql_sosl/sforce_api_calls_soql_select_conditionexpression.htm) you'll see more examples which are all very helpful, but they leave the question of integration as an exercise to the reader, even the [Execute an SOQL query using curl docs](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_rest.meta/api_rest/dome_query.htm) only has the simplest example. The problem is that the docs assumed constructing the SOQL query--and any transforming needed to use it in a query parameter--was trivial and not worth covering. In our case a simple example of using SOQL with curl like we posted above would have drastically improved our user experience with the Salesforce API and would have saved us literally hours.
```

Reviewer: Is https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.soql_sosl.meta/soql_sosl/sforce_api_calls_soql_select_conditionexpression.htm the URL you were looking for?
